This Is A Temporary Syllabus.

This Is For CSE SEM 3

Course Name: English I 
Course Code: HSMC(CSE)201 
Contact: 2L 
Credits: 2
No. of Lectures: 30

Module 1: Grammar 
Noun and Pronoun (Types and Functions), Verbs (Lexical and Auxiliary), Verb Tenses, Adjectives and Adverb, Article and Preposition, Conjunction, Phrases, Clause (Noun, Adjective, Adverb), Sentence Types (Simple, Compound and Complex), Transformations (Active-Passive, Direct-Indirect) 

Module 2: Vocabulary 
One-word Substitution, Homophones, Proverbs, Synonyms and Antonyms

Module 3: Phonetics 
Air-stream Mechanism, Vowel and Consonant Sounds, Intonation 

Module 4: Communication Theory
Definition of Communication, Types of Communication (Verbal & Non-Verbal; Formal & Informal; Intrapersonal, Inter-personal, Extra-personal, Group, Mass), Flows of Communication (Vertical, Horizontal and Diagonal), Barriers of Communication 

Module 5: Comprehension
"A Strange Night for Mr. Shasmal"- Satyajit Ray, Reading and Comprehension, Objective and Subjective Questions
 
Text Books ----
1. The Collected Short Stories by Satyajit Ray- Penguin Books 
2. A Handbook of Grammar -BRAINWARE 
3. Intermediate English Grammar- Cambridge University Press 
4. High School English Grammar- Wren and Martin BRAINWARE UNIVE



--------------------------------


Course Name: Linear Algebra and Differential Equations 
Course Code: BSC(CSE)201 
Contact: 3L+1T 
Credit: 4 
No. of Lectures: 36+12

Module 1: Matrices
Basic Operations on Matrices, Determinants, Cramer’s Rule, Inverse of a Matrix using Gauss Jordan Elimination, Rank of a Matrix, Solution of System of Linear Equations: Gauss Elimination Method.

Module 2: Vector Spaces-I
Vector Space, Linear Independence of Vectors, Basis, Dimension; Linear Transformations (Maps), Range and Kernel of a Linear Map, Rank, Nullity, Rank-Nullity Theorem, Inverse of a Linear Transformation, Composition of Linear Maps, Matrix associated with a Linear Map.

Module 3: Vector Spaces-II
Eigen values, Eigenvectors, Symmetric, Skew-symmetric, and Orthogonal Matrices, Eigenfaces, Diagonalization, Inner Product Spaces, Gram-Schmidt Orthogonalization.

Module 4: Ordinary Differential Equations
Basic Concepts, Exact Differential Equations, Linear Differential Equations of Second and Higher Order with Constant Coefficients, Method of Variation of Parameters, Cauchy-Euler Equation, System of linear Differential Equations with Constant Coefficients, Applications of Linear Differential Equations.

Module 5: Partial Differential Equations
 Basic Concepts, Classification of Second Order Linear PDE, Method of Separation of Variables and its application in solving Wave Equation (one dimension), Heat Equation (one dimension) and Laplace’s equation (two dimensions).

Text Books: 
1. Poole D., Linear Algebra: A Modern Introduction, 2nd Edition, Brooks/Cole, 2005. 
2. Kreyszig Erwin, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 10th Edition, John Wiley & Sons, 2010. 
3. Jain R. K. and Iyengar S.R.K, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 5th Edition, Narosa Publishers, 2016. 

Reference Books: 
1. Peter V. O’Neil, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 7th Edition, Cengage Learning, 2012. 2. Grewal B. S, Higher Engineering Mathematics, Khanna Publishers, 35th Edition, 2000.
