This Is A Temporary Syllabus.

This Is For CSE SEM 4

Mandatory Induction Program (Duration: 3 weeks)
1.. Physical activity
2. Creative Arts 
3. Universal Human Values 
4. Literary 
5. Proficiency Modules 
6. Lectures by Eminent People 
7. Visits to local Areas 
8. Familiarization to Dept./Branch & Innovations 


--------------------------------


Course Name:  Human Values and Professional Ethics 
Course Code: HSMC(CSE)202 
Contact: 2L + 1T 
Credits: 3 
No. of Lectures: 24 + 12

Module 1  : Course Introduction - Need, Basic Guidelines, Content and Process for Value Education 
1. Understanding the need, basic guidelines, content and process for Value Education 
2. Self-Exploration–what is it? - its content and process; ‘Natural Acceptance’ and Experiential Validationas the mechanism for self-exploration 
3. Continuous Happiness and Prosperity- A look at basic Human Aspirations 
4. Right understanding, Relationship and Physical Facilities- the basic requirements for fulfillment of aspirations of every human being with their correct priority 
5. Understanding Happiness and Prosperity correctly- A critical appraisal of the current scenario 
6. Method to fulfill the above human aspirations: understanding and living in harmony at various levels

Module 2:   Understanding Harmony in the Human Being - Harmony in Myself 
1. Understanding human being as a co-existence of the sentient ‘I’ and the material ‘Body’ 
2. Understanding the needs of Self (‘I’) and ‘Body’ - Sukh and Suvidha 
3. Understanding the Body as an instrument of ‘I’ (I being the doer, seer and enjoyer) 
4. Understanding the characteristics and activities of ‘I’ and harmony in ‘I’ 
5. Understanding the harmony of I with the Body: Sanyam and Swasthya; correct appraisal of Physical needs, meaning of Prosperity in detail 
6. Programs to ensure Sanyam and Swasthya

Module 3    : Understanding Harmony in the Family and Society - Harmony in Human-Human Relationship 
1. Understanding harmony in the Family- the basic unit of human interaction 
2. Understanding values in human-human relationship; meaning of Nyaya and program for its fulfillment to ensure Ubhay-tripti; Trust (Vishwas) and Respect (Samman) as the foundational values of relationship 
3. Understanding the meaning of Vishwas; Difference between intention and competence 
4. Understanding the meaning of Samman, Difference between respect and differentiation; the other salient values in relationship 
5. Understanding the harmony in the society (society being an extension of family): Samadhan, Samridhi, Abhay, Sah-astitva as comprehensive Human Goals 

6. Visualizing a universal harmonious order in society- Undivided Society (AkhandSamaj), Universal Order (SarvabhaumVyawastha )- from family to world family!


Module 4:     Understanding Harmony in the Nature and Existence - Whole existence as Co-existence
1. Understanding the harmony in the Nature 
2. Interconnectedness and mutual fulfillment among the four orders of nature- recyclability and selfregulation in nature 
3. Understanding Existence as Co-existence (Sah-astitva) of mutually interacting units in all-pervasive space 
4. Holistic perception of harmony at all levels of existence

Module 5: Implications of the above Holistic Understanding of Harmony on Professional Ethics
1. Natural acceptance of human values 
2. Definitiveness of Ethical Human Conduct 
3. Basis for Humanistic Education, Humanistic Constitution and Humanistic Universal Order 
4. Competence in Professional Ethics: 
    a) Ability to utilize the professional competence for augmenting universal human order, 
    b) Ability to identify the scope and characteristics of people-friendly and eco-friendly production systems, technologies and management models 
5. Case studies of typical holistic technologies, management models and production systems 
6. Strategy for transition from the present state to Universal Human Order: 
    a) At the level of individual: as socially and ecologically responsible engineers, technologists and managers 
    b) At the level of society: as mutually enriching institutions and organizations

Text Books: 
1. R. R. Gaur, R. Sangal, G. P. Bagaria, “A Foundation Course in Human Values and Professional Ethics”, Excel Books, New Delhi, 2010, ISBN 978-8-174-46781-2.

Reference Books 
1. Ivan Illich, 1974, Energy & Equity, The Trinity Press, Worcester, and Harper Collins, USA. 
2. E. F. Schumacher, 1973, Small is Beautiful: a study of economics as if people mattered, Blond & Briggs, Britain. 
3. Sussan George, 1976, How the Other Half Dies, Penguin Press. Reprinted 1986, 1991. 
4. Donella H. Meadows, Dennis L. Meadows, Jorgen Randers, William W. Behrens III, 1972, Limits to Growth – Club of Rome’s report, Universe Books. 
5. A. Nagraj, 1998, Jeevan Vidya Ek Parichay, Divya Path Sansthan, Amarkantak. 
6. P. L. Dhar, R. R. Gaur, 1990, Science and Humanism, Commonwealth Publishers. 
7. A. N. Tripathy, 2003, Human Values, New Age International Publishers. 
8. Subhas Palekar, 2000, How to practice Natural Farming, Pracheen (Vaidik) Krishi Tantra Shodh, Amravati. 
9. E. G. Seebauer & Robert L. Berry, 2000, Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists & Engineers , Oxford University Press 
10. M. Govindrajran, S. Natrajan & V. S. Senthil Kumar, Engineering Ethics (including Human Values), Eastern Economy Edition, Prentice Hall of India Ltd. 
11. B. P. Banerjee, 2005, Foundations of Ethics and Management, Excel Books. 
12. B. L. Bajpai, 2004, Indian Ethos and Modern Management, New Royal Book Co., Lucknow. Reprinted 2008


--------------------------------


Course Name: Linear Algebra and Differential Equations 
Course Code: BSC(CSE)201 
Contact: 3L+1T 
Credit: 4 
No. of Lectures: 36+12

Module 1: Matrices
Basic Operations on Matrices, Determinants, Cramer’s Rule, Inverse of a Matrix using Gauss Jordan Elimination, Rank of a Matrix, Solution of System of Linear Equations: Gauss Elimination Method.

Module 2: Vector Spaces-I
Vector Space, Linear Independence of Vectors, Basis, Dimension; Linear Transformations (Maps), Range and Kernel of a Linear Map, Rank, Nullity, Rank-Nullity Theorem, Inverse of a Linear Transformation, Composition of Linear Maps, Matrix associated with a Linear Map.

Module 3: Vector Spaces-II
Eigen values, Eigenvectors, Symmetric, Skew-symmetric, and Orthogonal Matrices, Eigenfaces, Diagonalization, Inner Product Spaces, Gram-Schmidt Orthogonalization.

Module 4: Ordinary Differential Equations
Basic Concepts, Exact Differential Equations, Linear Differential Equations of Second and Higher Order with Constant Coefficients, Method of Variation of Parameters, Cauchy-Euler Equation, System of linear Differential Equations with Constant Coefficients, Applications of Linear Differential Equations.

Module 5: Partial Differential Equations
 Basic Concepts, Classification of Second Order Linear PDE, Method of Separation of Variables and its application in solving Wave Equation (one dimension), Heat Equation (one dimension) and Laplace’s equation (two dimensions).

Text Books: 
1. Poole D., Linear Algebra: A Modern Introduction, 2nd Edition, Brooks/Cole, 2005. 
2. Kreyszig Erwin, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 10th Edition, John Wiley & Sons, 2010. 
3. Jain R. K. and Iyengar S.R.K, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 5th Edition, Narosa Publishers, 2016. 

Reference Books: 
1. Peter V. O’Neil, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 7th Edition, Cengage Learning, 2012. 2. Grewal B. S, Higher Engineering Mathematics, Khanna Publishers, 35th Edition, 2000.
